---
title: "Genuine Thoughs on Superintelligence"
date: 2024-06-10
categories: [blog]
classes: homepage-font-small
tags: [Artificial Intelligence, Superintelligence, Reasoning models?]
---

As a graduate student who has just broken into this field of Artificial Intelligence with the desire to contribute to the race to superintelligence. It has been quite an interesting journey so far. In the beginning, it was a lot of learning, taking Andrew Ng courses, and watching Stanford Machine Learning courses on YouTube, reading blog posts, and following the most popular AI researchers on X., it was exciting at the same involving. With a strong background in Mathematics and coding, it was quite easy for me to follow, although sometimes, I had to run back to MIT math courses on YouTube for refreshers. After a while(about a year) I began really conversant with concepts like backpropagation, loss functions, optimization, normalization etc. I literally would walk through backpropagation with a pen and paper, just to make sure I understood these concepts. With a solid understand, I decided to take another step, Andrej Karpathy Zero to Hero Playlist. Listening to that guy’s tutorial while practicing is a gold resource. You actually get to implement neural networks while going over the mathematics on a piece of paper (I best part was explaining backpropagation with the computation graph). At this period, I felt very familiar with the field especially when reading X post of startups or AI labs releasing stuff (At this point also, It was easy to look up new concepts I don’t know when I see them in X posts). I felt good at this point that was just the beginning. The next adventure was to dive into the world of reading papers. I was still then in my first year master’s program which was very course work intensive (In China first year course work is very demanding with requirements to meet minimum credits). So during weekends, I do I am always occupied with assignments and preparing presentation (very common too in China to presents on course topics, almost in all courses you would take) but I found time to also read some papers. Which papers I read were largely influenced by Andrew Ng course, he has the habit of citing landmark papers in Machine Learning. Frankly, reading papers at the start was very difficult because, some were very technical, but the solution I found was to read them with an LLM (chatGPT was my favorite), there you could ask questesion even about a single sentence which was bugging you. Later, I could read papers at a much faster rate alone. 

As a began to gain deeper understanding of the field, there are things which literally unsettles me and frankly as a young research may be confusing. The general aim of Artificial intelligence is to reach superintelligence(a term which is defined differently by different researcher) but the general consensus is that this is intelligence which is superior to human
 